**Translation of Section 45**

However, they remain stuck in the successful experiences of the previous stage of development. For example, in the West today, macroeconomic policy still relies primarily on monetary policy, which was relatively effective during the golden era. But judging from the actual results, the effectiveness of these policies is very low. Even today, in many Western countries, especially in Europe and Japan, despite monetary over-issuance, zero or even negative interest rates, inflation remains low and economic growth remains extremely sluggish. Similarly, as China's economy has begun to enter the mature stage after the Lewis turning point, the government's fiscal policy remains very aggressive, while its use of monetary policy is still relatively weak. Over the past few years, private enterprises have, to some extent, been squeezed by various fiscal policies and state-owned enterprises, with a tendency for their space to narrow in certain sectors. This phenomenon of misalignment between macroeconomic policies and the stage of economic development has occurred in various countries at different stages.

Figure 21: Average Wage of Urban Employed Persons
Source: National Bureau of Statistics, People's Bank of China (price factors adjusted).
Figure 22: Per Capita Consumption Expenditure of Urban Households
Source: National Bureau of Statistics, People's Bank of China (price factors adjusted)

Figure 23: Per Capita Consumption Expenditure of Rural Households
Source: National Bureau of Statistics, People's Bank of China (price factors adjusted)
Figure 24: Fixed Asset Investment (Excluding Rural Households)
Source: National Bureau of Statistics, People's Bank of China (price factors adjusted).

However, it is undeniable that China is still in a golden era of economic development. It still holds a cost advantage over developed Western countries, while other emerging developing countries behind it (such as India, etc.) have not yet formed systemic competitive advantages. In the coming years, China's wage levels, savings levels, investment levels, and consumption levels will continue to present a mutually chasing, spiraling upward state, situated in a mutually reinforcing positive cycle. Investment opportunities remain very abundant and excellent. If the government can utilize more macroeconomic monetary policy at this stage to support private enterprises, it would be greatly beneficial for the economic development of this stage.

V. The Growth Potential of the Chinese Economy
With the above foundation, we can attempt to answer this question: How should we estimate the growth potential of the Chinese economy over the next 5, 10, 15, 20 years or even longer? I would like to answer this question from five aspects.

1.  First, as mentioned before, the foundation of modern civilization is the combination of modern technology and a free market economy, and has little to do with political organization. However, technological density is directly related to economic growth. Considering the current state of China's higher education, and considering China's per capita GDP and per capita R&D expenditure, you will find China's potential is enormous. Last year, China graduated 7.5 million university students, of which 4.7 million were in STEM fields. In contrast, the number of STEM graduates from American universities is around 500,000, only one-tenth of China's. In two years, China is expected to have nearly 200 million university students in total, already close to the entire working population of the United States. China is about to enjoy a massive engineer dividend.
    A similar situation occurred in early 1978, when hundreds of millions of young people from rural China moved to big cities. Regardless of job difficulty or salary level, they were willing to strive with all their might. China's economic take-off over the past few decades has benefited precisely from this labor dividend and the job opportunities brought by globalization.
    Today, we are about to usher in the era of the engineer dividend, enjoying the economic transformation, upgrading, and affluent society brought by it. Huawei is a great example. They employ about 150,000 engineers, all of whom hold at least a bachelor's degree in engineering, with most having master's degrees or above. The wages Huawei pays them are roughly only a small fraction of those for equivalent positions in Seattle or Silicon Valley, but Huawei's engineers are renowned in the industry for their diligence and dedication. Their intelligence and professional training are no less than those of engineers in Seattle or Silicon Valley. The competitive potential China is about to unleash lies precisely here.
    Let's further discuss the engineer dividend issue. Figure 25 shows the per capita GDP and the ratio of R&D expenditure to GDP for some countries and regions. In 2017, China's per capita GDP was close to $9,000 (in 2018, it approached $10,000). In terms of per capita GDP, China is comparable to Brazil, Mexico, and Thailand. However, China's ratio of R&D expenditure to GDP is much higher than these countries, reaching 2.13%. In comparison, Brazil is 1.27%, Thailand is 0.78%, and Mexico is only 0.49%. China's ratio of R&D expenditure to GDP is even higher than countries like Spain and Portugal. Spain's per capita GDP is three times that of China, and Portugal's is twice that of China. That is to say, China's ratio of R&D expenditure to GDP is higher than countries with per capita GDP two or three times its own, and far higher than countries with a similar level of per capita GDP as China.

Figure 25: Comparison of Per Capita GDP and Per Capita R&D Expenditure Across Different Countries (Regions)
Source: World Bank. Per capita GDP is nominal USD data for 2017. R&D expenditure ratio data is for 2017 for most countries, except for Brazil, Mexico, Thailand (2016 data).

2.  So how can China unleash its per capita GDP potential? The urbanization rate is another important factor. The urbanization rates of all those countries with higher per capita GDP and higher R&D expenditure are around 70%. Today, China's urbanization rate is only 55%. Moreover, this number is somewhat inflated because it includes 180 million migrant workers who live in cities but do not have urban household registration (hukou). Only those with hukou are entitled to a series of social welfare benefits, including education, retirement, and medical benefits. With these security nets, reducing worries about the future, people are more willing to consume. Therefore, these 180 million migrant workers are not full participants in urban life. Not to mention the 45% of the rural population living completely outside cities.
    However, the Chinese government plans to carry out urbanization at a speed of 1% per year over the next 20 years. This means that in the next 20 years, about 300 million people will become new consumers. This is precisely the entire point of participating in urbanization—becoming consumers. Once you truly join urban life and have basic social security, you will start consuming, earning money, and entering the economic cycle like all citizens around you. The result is sustainable economic growth.

3.  Another question is: Does China have sufficient capital to support urbanization, construction, and manufacturing upgrading? Coincidentally, China has another characteristic that can aid in this. As shown in Figure 26, this is China's national savings rate from 1952 to 2017. Even before the reform and opening-up, China's savings rate remained consistently high. Interestingly, in recent years, while consumption levels have risen significantly, the savings rate has also increased. Last year, China, as the world's second-largest economy, still had a savings rate as high as 45%. The high savings rate is the resource that supports further consumption and investment.
    The high savings rate can also address one thing that worries many people—the high debt level. China's debt level has been rising continuously since 2008 when China began sustained massive investment to cope with the global economic recession triggered by the US subprime mortgage crisis, mainly through money issuance and debt financing. Traditionally, social financing in China has primarily come from bank debt, sometimes accounting for as much as 80-90%. The stock market and equity financing account for a very low proportion of overall financing. But whether debt or equity, their source is the same. They do not come from the US or any other country but directly from domestic savers. Almost all creditors of Chinese debt are the Chinese themselves, and it is issued in the local currency. Therefore, although the debt ratio is high, the likelihood of it triggering a financial crisis is currently not very high.
    The next step the Chinese government wants to take is to fundamentally change China's financing structure through capital market reform, significantly increasing the weight of equity and reducing the proportion of debt. Just yesterday, we saw news that China will launch the "Science and Technology Innovation Board" (STAR Market) on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The "STAR Market" will adopt the same model as the US, namely a registration-based capital issuance system based on information disclosure, rather than the previous approval-based system. This means any company wanting to go public can enter the capital market in a relatively short time, in a relatively free manner, and obtain capital through free competition. Of course, the government will monitor it afterwards. This model is the same as in the US. Starting with the registration system reform, China will gradually adjust the social financing structure, slowly reducing the high proportion of bank debt from 80-90%. A complex, mature economy should not have such a high proportion of bank debt. Therefore, capital market reform will become the key to unlocking the high debt ratio problem and improving financing efficiency.

Figure 26: China's National Savings Rate, 1952–2017
Source: CEIC DATA.

    But China does not need to rely on foreign capital. Capital can be directly taken from domestic savings. As Chinese households become wealthier, the savings rate has remained at a high level, a product of Chinese culture. Figure 26 clearly shows that the Chinese people are not satisfied; they want to invest more; they do not want to sit idle and consume their resources. If China's capital market reform can transform this desire into effective investment, achieve economic transformation and upgrading through sustained investment in education and technology, thereby realizing a continuous positive cycle of economic growth, personal wealth increase, consumption upgrade, and investment increase, it can achieve long-term sustainable growth for the Chinese economy.

4.  Another dimension to understanding China's economic future is the flexibility and pragmatism of the Chinese government in handling major problems and crises. The Chinese government's two goals today—comprehensively governing the party and the country with strict discipline and maintaining medium-to-high speed sustainable economic growth—are both unified and somewhat contradictory. Sometimes, if handled poorly, they could even evolve into a crisis. But in responding to crises, we have also seen the Chinese government demonstrate sufficient elasticity and pragmatism, able to adjust priorities between the two major goals. For example, the Chinese government has adjusted its negotiation strategy with the US on the Sino-US trade conflict issue, and has also changed its previous approach to handling some private entrepreneurs and lending policies for private enterprises, especially the handling of private enterprise financial equity during the stock market plunge. Of course, the losses already incurred are difficult to reverse, and healing the wounds also requires time.
    Furthermore, the result of comprehensively governing the party and the country with strict discipline may be increasing political stability rather than the opposite. This point may be difficult for domestic and foreign observers sympathetic to the Western model to understand and accept. But the reality is indeed so, and there are many cases in the past and present to corroborate this. In such a situation, people will find ways to make adaptive adjustments. No matter how dissatisfied people are with the current situation, most are unwilling to leave China. They can neither take their wealth nor their careers with them. As policies improve and time passes, everything returns to normal. Businessmen will continue to run their businesses. This wealth will not flow out of China, and productive assets will not be lost. The majority of people in society, including even the Chinese government, will learn to adjust. If the Chinese government possesses flexibility and adaptability, I believe the entire Chinese society must also be flexible and adaptable. When contradictions erupt, we will see the priority order between the two goals constantly switching. As long as the government does not change the goals of economic reform and development, the Chinese economy will continue to develop in a stable, single, large market.

5.  So, how far can the Chinese economy go under the existing political-economic model? Of course, no one can give a definite answer to this. Therefore, to predict the future of the Chinese economy, it is best to refer to the development experience of countries organized with similar politics and culture.
    East Asian countries and regions similarly influenced by Confucianism, such as Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong China, and Taiwan China, although differing greatly from China in terms of both government control and population size, their development journeys are still instructive for predicting China's economic prospects.
    Japan first reached a per capita GDP level of $10,000 (in constant 2010 USD) in 1962. In the subsequent 24 years, its average compound GDP growth rate was about 6.1%, continuing until reaching a per capita GDP level of $30,000 (Figure 27). Then the growth rate began to slow. South Korea broke through the $10,000 mark in 1993. In the following 24 years, the average compound GDP growth rate was 4.7%, until exceeding $25,000 (Figure 28). Singapore's compound growth rate was as high as 8.2%, growing from $10,000 per capita to $30,000 in a relatively short time (Figure 29). Hong Kong China was similar, with 28 years of 10% growth (Figure 30). Of course, Singapore and Hong Kong are very small economies, so they are not very comparable. The data from South Korea and Japan are more predictive. Their political organization is similar to China's, and like China, they value education, technology, industrial upgrading, and emphasize domestic consumption, Japan especially so. South Korea's economy is still very dependent on foreign countries. But they have all shifted some focus to consumption to varying degrees.

Figure 27: Japan's Economic Growth Rate and Per Capita GDP (2010 Constant USD), 1961–1985
Source: World Bank.

    The experiences of these East Asian Confucian countries can be very helpful in estimating China's growth potential. They all believe in a culture of meritocracy, have high savings rates, value education and technology, show strong ambition upon reaching $10,000 per capita GDP, and most have similarities with China in their social organization, where the government plays a more important role in the economy than in Western countries. Chinese society is very likely to follow a similar trajectory.
    But we are bottom-up investors. Our investments are generally not affected by the overall macro environment. The reason we discuss these issues today is because the companies we invest in are, to some extent, closely related to the fate of their country. Therefore, we need to have a rough understanding of this country. This understanding does not need to be very precise, nor does it need to be correct all the time. We only need a rough projection of the situation in the country we are betting on for the next 20 or 30 years. That is why we do these analyses, why we think about these problems.
    We have discussed many different aspects to help you understand the big picture more fairly and objectively. So next time you see famous American newspapers and periodicals talking about China, don't forget their inherent biases. These biases come from their own experiences and success. They tend to judge things different from themselves based on that. When you see China responding to a certain problem, it usually also stems from their own experiences, their own successes, and their own biases. You need to have the ability to see through the clouds.

Figure 28: South Korea's Economic Growth Rate and Per Capita GDP (2010 Constant USD), 1992–2017
Source: World Bank.
